 I'm going to have a quick video here to go over the driving and blue pilot 7.0 utilizing the new angle based control scheme. I'm going to do this video with a voiceover because no matter which of the six microphones I've used in the past for filming videos in the car, somebody has always came up with nasty comments about how the audio quality is not good enough. Hopefully doing a voiceover in the office will produce a better quality. We're on my traditional route for testing high curvature low speed behavior. We're in the F-150. We just dodged a piece of trash in the road manually which kind of won't do but now we're going to go hands-free and see if it can handle this entire route. So we're into our first big curve here and we oversteer a little bit. We get a little bit into the oncoming lane. So we're going to use the lateral debug screen. I'm going to have my co-pilot reach up there and adjust the steering factor to reduce the steering factor a little bit. And as we go into the next curve it looks pretty good. It does oversteer just a real tiny bit so we're going to tweak it just a tiny bit more. And as we get into our third curve coming up here we'll see that it handles it really nicely. Now with the new angle based control we can take a lot bigger and tighter curves than we used to and we can also unwind. But we are definitely bumping up against the Ford safety limits here. And so you have to be mindful of your speed primarily because the speed increases Ford really cuts back on the amount of steering it will let you have. So for instance this curve right here had a warning sign that said 15 miles an hour. And I get down to 25, 26 and it handles it fairly well. I actually wish I'd probably gone down to about 23. If I'm driving with my hands I can take that curve at 35 maybe almost 40. But if you want to stay within the Ford safety limits you got to get a lot closer to what those yellow signs that say what the recommended speed for the curve is. There's some coming up later on that we're going to have to get down under 25 to get those as well. So since we dodged our piece of trash in the road at the very beginning of this video we have managed to go completely hands free through six or seven curves that would not have been able to be done hands free using curvature control. You know the model tends to get really squirrely at stop signs, red lights, intersections. It likes to move the wheel a lot to really try and center up. So if you're in the tuning then you don't try to focus on tuning when you're at a stop or you're coming to a stop or coming away from a stop. Focus on tuning when you're actually driving. You can be actually driving as slow as about 15 or 20 miles an hour but not when you're coming to a stop or taking off from a stop. The model gets really squirrely there. So we've reached the end of the first section of our torture test. We're going to make a manual right hand turn here. We're definitely still nowhere near being able to make navigational turns. So as you can see not really any wind up there. I did hold the wheel to kind of guide it in where the lane is getting narrow. I probably could have let go with no issues. The next thing we're going to do is take a traffic circle. Absolutely no way. You're going to get through a traffic circle using Ford's BlueCruise signals. They will support nowhere near the amount of steering torque required to get through a traffic circle. So these curves coming up here have a recommended speed of 15 miles an hour based on the yellow signs. It's not always visible in the video. We'll get down to 26, 25 and I do start to get a little bit of a flash saying that we're getting off center of our path. It's still completed the curve but we were starting to get a little off center. If I'd gotten down around 22 we probably could have completed it safely. We had to slow down to 23 to get the second one there and we were still getting the flash that we were off center. So maybe even all the way down to 20 for the second half of that S curve we'd have been able to handle it. And once again that's the forward lateral acceleration limits coming in. This one here says 25 on this curve but you're also approaching a stop sign. So we're definitely going to get down to 25 because we have to stop right as we get through the curve.