 Okay guys, we're going to do a quick video here to show you how to use the lateral debug menu to tune the angle steering factors in BluePilot 7. There are two factors. There is a low speed factor and a high speed factor. We can see those in the BluePilot menu. We've got a lateral tuning and then angle tuning. You can see there's a low speed factor and a high speed factor. Low speed factor is at 15 miles an hour and high speed factor is at 70 miles per hour and the steering factor gets literally interpolated between the two. For ideal tuning, you would go out and tune on a curvy road where you could drive 15 miles an hour and then you would go on a highway that's got some curves and tune it at 70 miles an hour and you'd nail down both parameters and the interpolation in between would be nice and clean. That's not always possible. Sometimes you have to tune it 30 and 60. Do the best you can. Tune as slow as you can. Tune as high as you can. The debug menu actually waits how it applies adjustments based on speed so you can still get pretty close. We're going to start in the comma 3x menu. You tap on the screen to call up the menu and then you've got all your panels on the left and there's four buttons on the right including the settings button but the top button is supposed to be a bug. Calls up the lateral debug screen and you can see the plus and minus buttons in the upper right. There are two trends. There is the green line which is the steering wheel angle the model wants to achieve and there's the yellow line which is the steering wheel angle we actually achieved. In a perfect scenario the green line and yellow line would always look like one line because our steering wheel would always be at the exact position the model wanted it to be. In reality it doesn't work like that. There's some delay and lag. There's also the fact that just a bump in the road can make your steering wheel shake and so it gets off from what the model would have wanted. But as we start the route so that we actually see data coming in what we're going to see is that our yellow line is going to mostly follow our green line and what we're really looking for is peaks in curves. So if we make a right hand curve the chart will trend to the bottom because right is negative in Ford's world. If we make a left hand curve the trend is going to go up because positive is left in Ford's world. And what we want is for the yellow line to not exceed the green line either going up or down. I've intentionally got this tuned a little wonky so that when we go through our first curve we're going to oversteer. We will see that the yellow line exceeds the peak of the green line and we'll need to bump our tuning parameters down. This is a simulator. It doesn't keep in line with the actual tuning parameters on my device so keep that in mind. We're just trying to simulate some button presses here for you. So if you want the lateral control to go full screen you can simply click on the settings button and then close the settings menu while you've got lateral debug up and you'll go into lateral debug screen full screen. So we're going to start the route and the first thing we're going to do we're actually going to have a human turn. In fact if I close that you'll see we're going to have a human turn here. And then right after that I'm going to have to use my hands to dodge a piece of trash in the road up here. You can kind of see it. It's a black thing. We're about to go around it right here. After that we'll be into some hands-free driving so we'll go ahead and call up the lateral debug screen. There we go. And so what you can see here you can see that the green line is going up. It gets up to about 45 degrees but our yellow line overshoots it gets up to about 48-49 degrees and then as we come back down and curve the other way we're going to see a similar thing where it's going to line up mostly well but here right at the end you see it's got some overshoot. It goes way too far. So we would simply use the minus button to back off two or three clicks and then we're going to wait for our next curve to see how it handles that. We're going in through another right curve here and that time the peak of the green and the yellow line that really well. We correct a little bit. We come down again. Once again the peaks line up really well. The lines aren't right on top of each other. They don't look like one line but the peaks as low as we get or as high as we get are mostly lining up and looking really good. You could spend forever trying to tune it perfect. Every road behaves a little bit different. Now we're going to make a right hand curve or excuse me a left. You see this one got all the way up to 70 degrees of steering wheel angle. We possibly understeered just a tiny bit. I know we did but I just happened to know that's because we were going too fast for that curve. If you watch the video of the short drive we actually talked about that curve where we took it a little too fast. We're on a straight away now and I know this because A because I drove to the route but B plus and minus five degrees of steering wheel movement is basically nothing. This is just road noise right here shaking the wheel around. Once we get through this straight away here we'll go through another curve and we'll see another peak and we'll see how well they can line up. Here we go heading into a left hand curve. Once again a little bit of overshoot there and this one wasn't speed limited so I probably should back off my tuning parameter just a little bit. I should probably go down another click or two since I overshot just a little bit in a curve that I knew wasn't speed limited. That's going to be something that just takes a little bit of fuel. If you're overshooting some curves and undershooting others it's most likely you're just going too fast to the ones that you're undershooting. So we're back with the comma four menu. As you can see it's a very different screen here black and white a lot more compact but how you're going to get the lateral debug menu in the comma four is you're simply going to swipe down from the top and then you'll get the same thing. You'll get a green line for your desired steering angle. You'll get a yellow line for your actual steering angle. You'll get a plus and minus on the right side so you can go up and down with your steering factor. One thing I found to mention in the section where we were talking about the comma three X but it's the same here. This blue line or this blue shaded area is letting you know how much weight is being applied to your adjustment factor low or your adjustment factor high. So as you drive from 15 to 70 miles an hour you'll see this blue shaded area move from low to high to let you know how much weight is being applied to each one of your tuning factors. When you're done you can simply tap on it and it'll disappear.